Spam is an internet terminology that refers to either unsolicited commercial email (UCE) or unsolicited bulk email (UBE)(REFRENCE). Spams have always been annoying for users and decreased users efficiency. These email are usually sent for phishing purposes through
fraud agencies. Having a system that can detect spam emails and distinguish them from a normal email is a major security objective.

Receiving mails about a product promotion or attractive prizes followed by a link is counted as bad business strategies or fraud. Spamming not only draws people to harmful activities, but it can spread fake information about products (as many product owners hire
spammers to increase their product rating and attract customers). 

These unwanted emails consume a lot of memory and also waste users time.

So there is a vital need of a mechanism to detect these emails and distinguish them from normal emails. 

This mechanism of spam detection cannot be based on static algorithms, as spams are in different forms and spammers can change the spam pattern over time. This is why this mechanism must be based on a Machine-Learning (ML) algorithm that can be trained and keep
learning. This project is aiming for designing and implementing this ML algorithm by getting some help from existing statistical patterns.

a recent work in 2020, Dedeturk and Akay (2020) developed a spam filter model which achieved an accuracy of 98.70%.

Dada et al. (2019) stated that recent researchers and main providers of email services, like Gmail or Outlook, employ a combination of different machine and deep learning techniques to build their filters generally involving text classification.

Experimental results have shown that the combination of both image and text features improves the effectiveness of the classification with regard to the case in which only image or text features are used

//refrences
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10462-022-10195-4
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10119397
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11416-016-0287-x
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10262507
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10431737 A. Evaluation of Text Messaging Apps

https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s44230-022-00001-3 DATA!!!!

https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10374425 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-91446-6_49

https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10489-022-03807-7

SUBJECT:
FAKE REVIEWS!!!!!
combine training data and develop effective semi-supervised and unsupervised detection methods!!!
1) YELP DATASETS are mostly for hotels --> other areas are left!
One significant challenge in the field of fake review detection is the absence of large, standardized, and diverse datasets that accurately represent the complexity of fake review patterns across various domains and platforms. Indeed, most studies widely used
datasets such as Yelp or OTT datasets, which may not fully encapsulate the spectrum of fake review characteristics found in other contexts. In addition, The choice of dataset has a substantial impact on experimental outcomes and the reported performance of 
detection models. The specific attributes of the dataset, such as the labeling of genuine and fake reviews, the variability in writing styles, and the intricacies of domain-specific language, can significantly influence the efficacy of machine learning algorithms.
Consequently, the reported precision, recall, and other metrics may vary extensively based on the unique attributes of the chosen dataset.

Difficulties in obtaining accurately labeled fake review datasets result in many problems. First, supervised approaches are incompatible with the design of fake review detection models. Therefore, unsupervised machine learning techniques are frequently adopted to spot
fake reviews and/or reviewers based on some assumptions given in advance [7]. Secondly, due to the lack of ground-truth data, it is hard to evaluate the “real” performance of an unsupervised machine learning model. As a result, it’s challenging to select the appropriate
models for detecting fake reviews in a given review dataset. Lastly, due to the diversity of review spam strategies, no single detection model can stop all the spam [8]. Therefore, unsupervised models based on different assumptions of spam characteristics must be
combined to improve the detection performance.



Most of the literature found throughout our methodology employed supervised methods to detect fake reviews due to their polarity and the high accuracy provided. Therefore, to collect relevant inputs for our classifier, each researcher considers diverse types of 
features. Mainly, there are three types of features which are being used for fake review detection: review centric, reviewer centric and product centric features. First, review centric features analyze the textual content of users according to methods such as 
Bag-of-Words, word frequency, n-grams, Skip-grams and length of the text. Second, reviewer centric features, which describe user information, their connections, actions, and timestamp, and may incorporate text counts. Finally, there is product centric features 
which depend directly on product information. In Table 1 some examples of the features extracted considering the three types of the feature engineering are given.

Feature-based methods require a large amount of training data to obtain an effective detection model. How to effectively combine training data and develop effective semi-supervised and unsupervised detection methods for deceptive spam reviews will be one of the future
directions.

